# Printing Instructions

Printing the top and bottom shell can either be done inside down on the build
plate (with standard supports) or diagonally, standing up, with tree supports
enabled. The inside down printing leads to a less nice surface finish due to
the curves and you need to remove the supports with more effort.

![picture of the top of the controller being sliced standing up at 45 degrees,
being supported by tree supports](pictures/top-slice.png "Slice of top half")

On the other hand, the diagonal standing up prints have a nicer surface finish.
You just have to watch out for bed adhesion, which can cause issues when
printing. The top has a tiny 0.25 mm chamfer on the right side, which you can
use to stand the print on it and print with tree supports.

![picture of the bottom of the controller being sliced standing up at 45
degrees, being supported by tree supports](pictures/bottom-slice.png "Slice of
the bottom half")

The bottom half of the controller also has a 0.25mm chamfer on the right side
as well as on the back side. See the picture for a possible orientation. In
this orientation, you might run into problems with the right handle having
a rough texture. I've done some top surface ironing to try to prevent this.
Another option is to print the shell on a 45 degree angle from the back or
front.

![picture of the top support being sliced standing up at a 45 degree
angle](pictures/top-support-slice.png "Top support slice")

The supports can also be printed standing up at a 45 degree angle using tree
supports.

![picture of the bottom support being sliced standing up at a 45 degree
angle](pictures/bottom-support-slice.png "Bottom support slice")

## Buttons

The buttons need to be printed using 0.1 mm layers with 3 wall loops and detect
thin walls on. I printed them with 40% infill. Otherwise you can print the
button caps and the stems all on one plate.

Once printed, the stems need to be cleaned of the pads and then glued into the
caps with some CA glue. Only a little drop is needed to make for a good bond.
I've used some needle nose pliers to make sure the stems sit properly in the
cap. I like to put the stems in without glue first, to make sure they fit well
and then remove and glue them in.

The caps use two components to make for strong stems due to the orientation of
the layer lines. Printing single piece caps leads to stem breakage.

